Enhancing the permissions page (#6869)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions.md

control](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) for more information on Role-Based access
control (RBAC).

## User access

The following permission sets are available for assignment in dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts. They can be granted to dbt Cloud groups which are then in turn granted to users. A dbt Cloud group can be associated with more than one permission set. Permissions assignments with more access take precedence. 

### Permission sets

> Access to dbt Cloud features and functionality is split into `account-level` and `project-level` permission sets. Account-level permissions are primarily for account administration (inviting users, configuring SSO, and creating groups). Project-level permissions are for configuration and maintenance of the projects themselves (configuring environments, accessing IDE, and running jobs). Account permission sets may have access to project features, and project permission sets may have access to account features. Check out the [permissions tables](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions#account-roles) to compare sets and their access. 

Author: ```suggestion
Access to dbt Cloud features and functionality is split into `account-level` and `project-level` permission sets. Account-level permissions are primarily for account administration (inviting users, configuring SSO, and creating groups). Project-level permissions are for the configuration and maintenance of the projects themselves (configuring environments, accessing IDE, and running jobs). Account permission sets may have access to project features, and project permission sets may have access to account features. Check out the [permissions tables](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions#account-roles) to compare sets and their access. 
```

control](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) for more information on Role-Based access
control (RBAC).

## Permission sets

> The following permission sets are available for assignment in dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts. They can be granted to dbt Cloud groups which are then, granted to users. A dbt Cloud group can be associated with more than one permission set. Permissions assignments with more access take precedence. 

Author: ```suggestion
The following permission sets are available for assignment in dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts. They can be granted to dbt Cloud groups and then to users. A dbt Cloud group can be associated with more than one permission set. Permission assignments with more access take precedence. 
```

> The following permission sets are available for assignment in dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts. They can be granted to dbt Cloud groups which are then in turn granted to users. A dbt Cloud group can be associated with more than one permission set. Permissions assignments with more access take precedence. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following permission sets are available for assignment in dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts. They can be granted to dbt Cloud groups which are then, granted to users. A dbt Cloud group can be associated with more than one permission set. Permissions assignments with more access take precedence. 
```

> Access to dbt Cloud features and functionality is split into `account-level` and `project-level` permission sets. Account-level permissions are primarily for account administration (inviting users, configuring SSO, and creating groups). Project-level permissions are for the configuration and maintenance of the projects themselves (configuring environments, accessing IDE, and running jobs). Account permission sets may have access to project features, and project permission sets may have access to account features. Check out the [permissions tables](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions#account-roles) to compare sets and their access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access to dbt Cloud features and functionality is split into `account-level` and `project-level` permission sets. Account-level permissions are primarily for account administration (inviting users, configuring SSO, and creating groups). Project-level permissions are for the configuration and maintenance of the projects themselves (configuring environments, accessing IDE, and running jobs). Account permission sets may have access to project features, and project permission sets may have access to account features. Check out the [permissions tables](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions#account-roles) to compare sets and their access. 
```

> Access to dbt Cloud features and functionality is split into `account-level` and `project-level` permission sets. Account-level permissions are primarily for account administration (inviting users, configuring SSO, and creating groups). Project-level permissions are for the configuration and maintenance of the projects themselves (configuring environments, accessing IDE, and running jobs). Account permission sets may have access to project features, and project permission sets may have access to account features. Check out the [permissions tables](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions#account-roles) to compare sets and their access. 

Author: ```suggestion
Access to dbt Cloud features and functionality is split into `account-level` and `project-level` permission sets. Account-level permissions are primarily for account administration (inviting users, configuring SSO, and creating groups). Project-level permissions are for the configuration and maintenance of the projects themselves (configuring environments, accessing IDE, and running jobs). Account permission sets may have access to project features, and project permission sets may have access to account features. Check out the [permissions tables](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions#account-permissions) to compare sets and their access. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

The link didn't take me to a page for the permissions table. The link you used looks find so I'm not sure of it's just me.

Kind Regards

Author: Fixed it!

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="Manage marketplace apps">
Manage marketplace apps is a specialized permission set associated with dbt Cloud marketplace apps. Usually implemented for the Snowflake Native App.

Notable features:
- Manage marketplace apps is an account-level set.
- Used exclusively for marketplace app integrations. 
- Not intended for general user/group assignment.

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Metadata (Discovery API only)">

Metadata is intended to be a read-only [Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api) integration permission set. 

Notable features:
- Metadata is a project-level set.
- Grants read-only access to metadata related to dbt models, runs, sources, and tests.
- No access to modify, execute, or manage dbt jobs, repositories, or users.
- No other access to dbt Cloud features.

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Project creator">

The Project creator permission set can create, configure, and set up new projects. It is recommended for the admin of teams that will own a project. 

Notable features:
- Project creator is an account-level set.
- Only permission set other than Account admin that can create projects.

> - Limited account settings access, including creating and editing connections, inviting users, creating groups, and assigning licenses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Limited account settings access &mdash; the project creator can create and edit connections, invite users, create groups, and assign licenses.
```

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

This is a non blocker but I amended this slightly as initially the sentence confused me a little. I read it as they weren't able to create, edit...projects.

Kind Regards
Natalie

Author: I like it but want to avoid the emdash there since it's in a point list
```suggestion
- Limited account settings access. The project creator can create and edit connections, invite users, create groups, and assign licenses.
```

- Unrestricted access to project configurations. 
- Can access dbt Explorer

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Security admin">

Security admins have limited access to the security settings and policies for the dbt Cloud account. This is intended for members of a security team who need to ensure compliance with security standards and oversee the implementation of best security practices across the account. This permission set is frequently paired with the [IT license-type](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users#licenses). 

Notable features:
- Security admin is an account-level set. 
- Can create and edit users and groups and assign licenses.
- Can create and edit authentication and SSO settings. 

> - Can create and edit IP restrictions and service tokens and manage user access controls. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Can create and edit IP restrictions and service tokens, as well as manage user access controls. 
```

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

I've amended this sentence a little to remove the repetition of "and".

Kind Regards
Natalie

The following roles and permission sets are available for assignment in dbt Cloud Enterprise accounts. They can be granted to dbt Cloud groups which are then in turn granted to users. A dbt Cloud group can be associated with more than one role and permission set. Roles with more access take precedence. 

### Roles

The following is a list of the roles in dbt Cloud and a high-level overview of their access to features and functionality. 

Role access is split into `account-level` and `project-level` features. Account-level roles are primarily for account administration (inviting users, configuring SSO, and creating groups). Project-level roles are mainly for configuration and maintenance of the projects themselves (for example, configuring environments, accessing IDE, and running jobs). Account roles may have access to project features, and project roles may have access to account features. Check out the [roles and permissions tables](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions#account-roles) to compare roles and their access. 

<Expandable alt_header="Account admin">

> The Account admin role is the highest level of access and control over your dbt Cloud account and projects. We recommend limiting the number of users and groups assigned the account admin role.

Reviewer 2: ooo, _love_ this section. pithy and helpful!

Notable features:
- Account admin is an account role.
- Unrestricted access to every feature.
- The default role for every user who creates a new dbt Cloud account.
- The default role assigned to the `Owner` group.

</Expandable>

> <Expandable alt_header="Admin">

Reviewer 2: how much is this feedback about the content and how much is about the naming. bc i think it's confusing that there's account admin and admin :( can those be differentiated or is that out of scope?

Author: I'm listing the permissions as they appear in the product. If we want to get them renamed there (which I agree with) we should give the feedback to the enterprise team through their channels

The Admin role is intended for project administration but with limited account-level access to invite and assign users. 

Notable features:
- Admin is a project role.
- Unrestricted access to existing projects, but can't create new projects.
- Can invite new members and assign access but can't create groups.

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Analyst">

> The Analyst role is designed for users who need to run and analyze dbt models in the IDE but can't create or edit anything outside the IDE. 

Reviewer 2: love this section too

Notable features:
- Analyst is a project role.
- Full access to the IDE and the ability to configure personal credentials for adapters and Git. 
- Read-only access to environment configs.
- Can view jobs but can't edit them.

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Billing admin">

The Billing admin role can review product usage information that impacts the final billing of dbt Cloud (for example, models run).

Notable features:
- Billing admin is a project role.
- Unrestricted access to the **Billing** section of your **Account settings**. 
- Read access to public models. 
- No other access. 

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Database admin">

Database admins manage the connections and configurations between dbt Cloud and the underlying databases. 

Notable features: 
- Database admin is a project role. 
- Can set up and maintain database connections, environment variables, and Semantic Layer configs.
- Helpful for scenarios where your data warehouse admins only need access to dbt Cloud to configure connections. 
- Read-only access to Git repo, job, and run settings. 

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Developer">

> The Developer role is intended for users who build and maintain dbt models under development and manage production behavior. 

Reviewer 3: We should add something here about this role being the primary one users will need to develop in the IDE (important to call out especially if the default Member group is removed).

Author: Added that. Great call out @BrJan !

> The Developer role is intended for users who build and maintain dbt models under development and manage production behavior. 

Author: ```suggestion
The Developer role is intended for users who build and maintain dbt models under development and manage production behavior. This is the primary role for users working in the IDE and should not be conflated with the [Developer license](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users#licenses).
```

Notable features:
- Manage marketplace apps is a project role.
- Used exclusively for marketplace app integrations. 
- Not intended for general user/group assignment.

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Metadata (Discovery API only)">

Metadata is intended to be read-only [Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api) integration role. 

Notable features:
- Metadata is a project role.
- Grants read-only access to metadata related to dbt models, runs, sources, and tests.
- No access to modify, execute, or manage dbt jobs, repositories, or users.
- No other access to dbt Cloud features.

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Project creator">

The Project creator role can create, configure, and set up new projects. It is recommended for the admin of teams that will own a project. 

Notable features:
- Project creator is an account role
- Only role other than Account admin that can create projects
- Limited account settings access, including creating and editing connections, inviting users, creating groups, and assigning licenses.
- Unrestricted access to project configurations. 

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Security admin">

> Security admins have limited access to the security settings and policies for the dbt Cloud account. This is intended for members of a security team who need to ensure compliance with security standards and oversee the implementation of best security practices across the account.

Reviewer 3: This typically should be paired with an IT license (I'll defer to the Enterprise team on specific wording).

> Security admins have limited access to the security settings and policies for the dbt Cloud account. This is intended for members of a security team who need to ensure compliance with security standards and oversee the implementation of best security practices across the account.

Author: ```suggestion
Security admins have limited access to the security settings and policies for the dbt Cloud account. This is intended for members of a security team who need to ensure compliance with security standards and oversee the implementation of best security practices across the account. This role is frequently paired with the [IT license](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users#licenses). 
```

Notable features:
- Security admin is an account role. 
- Can create and edit users and groups and assign licenses.
- Can create and edit authentication and SSO settings. 
- Can create and edit IP restrictions and service tokens and manage user access controls. 
- No access to jobs, runs, environments, or the IDE.

</Expandable>
<Expandable alt_header="Semantic Layer">

A specialized role with strict access to only the Semantic Layer configuration (credentials and service tokens) for projects. 

Notable features:
- Semantic Layer is a project role.
- Can only access Semantic Layer configs.
- No other access to dbt Cloud features. 

</Expandable>

> <Expandable alt_header="Stakeholder">

Reviewer 2: does stakeholder have Explorer access? what about Viewer? can both of those be called out if so? i get asked a lot about what level of access is necessary for explorer

Author: Great question! I don't know. Researching this, we should definitely call out Explorer on this page

Author: Figured it out and added Explorer access
